[ Music ]
>> Jesus Villasenor: My name is Jesus
Villasenor I am originally from Mexico.
I am advocate at PACER Center and I have a son
with a disability, with a learning disability.
And, it must have been, I think, when my
son was in second grade in elementary school
when realized, when we realized
that something was not going right
because my son was coming home crying,
just get in his room and closing the door.
And, we started to get calls from the
teachers complaining about a bad attitude
that my son was having at school.
So, that was the first indication
that things were not going well.
And, through, an evaluation, which wasn't easy
because my child is, he was an excellent reader
but then we realized when we make evaluation
that he had, his problem was with numbers.
And so, he was identified at the end of second
school year with a learning disability and ADHD.
When we learned about my son's
disability, it was really a surprise.
But, because of my lack of knowledge, I really
didn't have any, we didn't have an impact.
I really didn't know in the beginning
what it really meant for him and for us,
the fact that he had a learning disability.
And, to tell you the truth, it was even hard,
harder also for teachers because I have this,
I think that this thing about being, learning
disability being a nonvisible disability,
it just and because our child was
intelligent and actually bright.
It was hard for the teachers to understand
that he had a learning disability.
So, for my expectations, I always
kept high expectations for my child.
But, I knew that I needed
to get more information.
And, that's actually when I started in contact
with PACER to get information that I needed
about what a learning disability meant and
actually about, to learn about our rights.
The challenges that his disability
presented for him were tremendous.
It was actually brutal.
We saw how this fun loving child was
getting beating down by the burden
of his disability and because
of his intelligence.
He was very aware that he
was not learning the way
that his peers were learning
or at the same pace.
And that was devastating for him.
But, including also the fact of how he was
treated differently by his teachers and he felt
so vulnerable to how weak his
achievement in school was that he really,
if it wasn't because the friends that
he had and loved while in school,
I think that he would've been,
he would've tried to drop out.
Fortunately, well, what we did with our child to
help him through the school years was to insist
to him that his personality himself
he was bigger than his disability.
And so if he was not being successful in school
that, not to let his disability to define him.
And so, we kept cheering him and
he still didn't believe us because,
I guess what they need is the
validation of their peers.
Fortunately, in our case, our child
discovered his passion for art.
And, he's a tremendous musician
and very good at visual arts.
And, he in the end decided for arts and
he attended college and actually graduated
with honors with a degree in illustration.
And, he found a job right away after
graduating from college where he got
to do what he says that he was born to do.
And, he's a very successful illustrator and
now he's doing all sorts of graphic arts
for a very prestigious advertising firm.
So, it's what people say, you know,
when you love what you're doing you
do have to work a day in your life.
And, that is the fortune
that we have with our son.
He's gainfully employed,
successful professional.
And what I keep telling parents and my message
to all the parents is that try and find,
talk to the children and find what is
that passion what is that thing in life
that they are good at that they
have the strength to build upon?
And it makes the whole difference in the world.
So, again, my advice to parents, Latino parents
specifically, and all parents in general is
to talk to the children but also to learn
to listen to them and use imagination
and try to find out what is that
thing that moves their children.
What is that thing that your
child feels fantastic for?
And, we live, fortunately, we live
in a country that where everything,
all the dreams can happen
when you work hard enough.
And again, when you have a passion
for something, that's the way to go.
[ Music ]
[ Silence ]